troubleshooting: serverless workers (#4521)
temporalio/documentation: docs/troubleshooting/serverless-workers.mdx

Reviewer: Maybe this is not the place, but I thought the check whether the version is current could also be helpful in here

**Invocations** graph. You can also check **CloudWatch > Log groups > /aws/lambda/your-function-name** for execution
logs.

If there are no invocations, continue to [Lambda is not being invoked](#lambda-not-invoked).

If the Lambda is being invoked but Workflows are not progressing, skip to
[Lambda is invoked but Tasks are not completing](#lambda-invoked-not-completing).

## Lambda is not being invoked {#lambda-not-invoked}

Work through the following checks in order.

### Validate the connection to Lambda {#validate-connection}

Start by verifying that Temporal can reach the Lambda function. Go to **Workers > Deployments > select your
deployment**, open the **Actions** menu on the version, and click **Validate Connection**. A successful validation
confirms that the Worker Deployment Version has a compute provider configured, that Temporal can assume the invocation
role, and that the Lambda function can be invoked.

If validation fails, check the following:

- The Lambda function ARN in the Worker Deployment Version configuration points to an existing function.
- The invocation role ARN is correct.

> - The trust policy on the invocation role allows the Temporal Cloud account to assume the role.

Reviewer: I wonder whether we can say something more specific here - e.g. ask them to compare with the template or the like?

Author: I am just going to ask that the make sure to create it with the template. If they created it with the template there shouldn't be any of these issues.

- The External ID in the trust policy matches the External ID in the Worker Deployment Version configuration.

> - The invocation role has `lambda:InvokeFunction` permission for the Lambda function ARN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The invocation role has `lambda:InvokeFunction` as well as `lambda:GetFunction` permissions for the Lambda function ARN.
```

### Check that the WCI is detecting Tasks {#check-wci-detecting-tasks}

If the connection validates successfully but the Lambda is still not being invoked, the
[Worker Controller Instance (WCI)](/serverless-workers#how-invocation-works) may not be detecting Tasks on the Task
Queue. The WCI is a system Workflow that runs in the same Namespace as your Worker Deployment. One WCI Workflow runs per
Worker Deployment Version that has a compute provider configured. The WCI monitors bound Task Queues and invokes the
Lambda function when Tasks arrive.

You can view the WCI Workflow by listing system Workflows in your Namespace:

```bash
temporal workflow list \
  --namespace <NAMESPACE> \
  --query 'TemporalNamespaceDivision = "TemporalWorkerControllerInstance"'
```

WCI Workflow IDs follow the pattern `temporal-sys-worker-controller-instance:<deployment-name>:<build-id>`. You can
inspect the WCI's history to see its recent `PullStats` Activity results:

```bash
temporal workflow show \
  --namespace <NAMESPACE> \
  --workflow-id 'temporal-sys-worker-controller-instance:<DEPLOYMENT_NAME>:<BUILD_ID>'
```

> 

Reviewer: is this really the first thing people should do? I would have thought debugging the task queue registration would be first...

Author: Hmm, yeah that's a good point. I'll just move the WCI stuff to another page. I think it's a neat thing that people should know how to view, but yeah the task queue registration is more important here

Check which Task Queues are bound to the Worker Deployment Version and whether there is a backlog:

```bash
temporal worker deployment describe-version \
  --namespace <NAMESPACE> \
  --deployment-name <DEPLOYMENT_NAME> \
  --build-id <BUILD_ID> \
  --report-task-queue-stats
```

If no Task Queues are listed, the binding has not been established. The server binds a Task Queue to a Worker Deployment
Version when a Worker with that deployment version successfully connects and polls the Task Queue.

A common cause is a failed first invocation. When you create a Worker Deployment Version, the WCI invokes the Lambda to
validate the configuration. If that first invocation fails (for example, due to missing environment variables, incorrect
TLS configuration, or missing dependencies), the Worker never connects to Temporal and never polls. Without a successful
poll, the Task Queue binding is never created.

To diagnose a failed first invocation, check the Lambda function's CloudWatch logs for errors from the initial
invocation. Fix the Lambda configuration, then update the Worker Deployment Version to trigger a new validation

> invocation.

Reviewer: I would have the customer re-run the lambda in the AWS console for simplicity - there they can see whether it succeeds and what errors it encounters
